thermite's are natives of the rainforest
but over seven millennia they migrated
to desert regions as well and have an
artifacts of skeleton whereas termites
do not so they are very sensitive to
changes in the environment temperature
and humidity or even physical damage so
what they do is it create these large
mounds and they live underground the
work we have done is numerical
simulations of air flow inside termite
mounds in a pair of human lungs you suck
in air through the track here and then
it would branch out but in termite
mounds it works in just the opposite way
there's air coming in through these
surface ducts and these ducts merge into
a central chimney and inside the central
chimney there's air also rising from the
bottom so from the nursery weather to my
suicide because of a low pressure that
develops on the leeward side of the
termite mound it creates a suction which
sucks out the mixture of fresh and stale
air that's how they maintain conditions
which are similar to those in the rain
forest even in desert we believe that
understanding the mechanics of termite
mounds would help bio-inspired HVAC
system design so heating ventilation and
air conditioning in very large
residential and commercial buildings we
found this very cool natural way of
using atmospheric drafts and having it
cool everything inside the structure so
we believe that you know we could draw
inspiration from from these termites
you